Online Shopping System (ecommerce web application)
 
Project Description: 

An ecommerce web application is a software platform that enables businesses to sell their products and services online. The application typically includes features such as product catalogs, shopping carts, payment processing, and order management. Users can browse and purchase products through the application, and the application can integrate with database to store products, customers and payment information. Overall, an ecommerce web application provides businesses with an efficient and convenient way to reach customers and sell their products online.

The application has several functionalities including user registration and login, ability for users to browse and purchase products, a product list page displaying all products, an order history page displaying all previous orders. Overall, the application is designed to provide a user-friendly and secure platform for online shopping.

The project involved following roles:
1. Administrator
2. User

1. Administrator: The administrator is the super user of this application. The administrator has all the information about all the users and about all products.

This module is divided into different sub-modules.
    A. Manage Products
    B. Manage Users
    C. Manage Orders

A. Manage Products: 
 Add Products: The shopping cart project contains different kind of products. The products can be classified into different   
 categories by name.
 Delete Products: Administrator can delete the products based on the stock of that particular product.
 Search products: Admin will have a list view of all the existing products. He can also search for a particular product by
 name.

B. Manage Users:
 View Users: The admin will have a list view of all the users registered in the system. Admin can view all the details of each
  user in the list except password.
 Add Users: Admin has privileges to add a user directly by providing the details.
 Delete & Block Users: Administrator has a right to delete or block a user. The default status of anew user registered is set
 as blocked. The admin must accept the new user by unblocking him.

C. Manage Orders:
 View Order: Administrator can view the Orders which is generated by the users. He can verify the details of the purchase.
 Delete Order: Admin can delete order from the orders list when the product is taken for delivery. 

2. User: The user plays a crucial role in a online shopping system as they are the primary consumers of the app's services. Some of the key responsibilities of a user in an online shopping application include:

   A. Create Account
   B. Login
   C. View Products
   D. Search Products
   E. Add to Cart.
   F. Submit Cart.
   G. Edit Profile.

Project uses following technologies:

FrontEnd : ReactJS is used to handle the Front-End Forms and User Inputs.

Database: JPA is used for database management, allowing for the creation and management of product and order objects in a relational database.

Backend: Spring Boot is used to handle the backend configuration and setup of the application, REST API is used to handle incoming and outgoing HTTP requests, and Spring Security is used to handle user authentication and authorization.
